Gcp Recourse Hierarchy
level 1: Resources - VMs Cloud storage buckets, Tables in BigQuery, anything else in Google Cloud
Level 2 Projects - Resources are organized as projects
Level 3: Folders - projects can be organized in folders
level 4: Organization Node - All the project folders and resources in your company.

Policies are placed to levels 2-4 and are inherited downward.

1 Projects are separate entities under the Organization node
2 Projects hold resources, each of which belongs to just one Project
3 Projects can have different owners and users
4 Projects are billed and managed separately.

Google Cloud project attributes
Project ID - Globally unique and immutable after creation
Project Name - Needs not be unique, Mutable, Chosen by you
Project Number - Globally unique, Assigned by Google Cloud, immutable

Folders let you group projects under an organization in a hierarchy and can delegate administrative rights so that they can work independently.


Identity and Access Management (IAM)
Administrators can apply policies that define who can do what and on which recourses.
A "Who" is called a "principle", They each have their identifier, usually an email.

The "Can do what" part of an IAM policy is defined by a role,
An IAM role is a collection of permissions
When you grant a role to a principal, you grant all the permissions that the role contains.

Example: To manage VM instances in a project you must be able to create, delete start stop, and change VMs.
so these permissions are grouped into a role

Different IAM Roles
Basic IAM Role
- When applied to a project, they affect all recourses in that project
- Owner, Editor, Viewer, Billing Admin
- warning! If several people are working together on a project that contains sensitive data, basic roles are probably too broad.
Predefined IAM Role
- Specific Google Cloud services offer sets of predefined roles, they even define where those roles can be applied.
- In Compute Engine you have the InstanceAdmin role that lets you perform a specific set of predefined actions. If you need another
  role with even more actions you create a custom role.
Custom IAM role
- Define permissions and let roles do specific actions.
- You'll need to manage the permissions that define the custom role you've chosen, people opt for the defined roles instead
- Custom roles can only be applied to either the project level or organization level.

Service Accounts***********
Do you want to give permissions to a Compute Engine VM instead of a person? Use Service Accounts
If you have an application running in a VM and need to store data on the Cloud Storage, but only want to grant access to the VM, 
  you can create a service account to authenticate that VM to Cloud Storage
Service accounts are named with an email address and use Cryptographic keys to access resources.

Service accounts need to manage service accounts. A service account is a resource, they can apply IAM policies granting different people separate roles.

Cloud Identity*********
With the Cloud Identity tool Organizations can define policies and manage their users and groups using the Google Admin Console.
- Admins log in and manage Google Cloud resources using the same user names and passwords they already used in existing Active Directory or LDAP systems.
- Free edition and premium edition that provides capabilities to manage mobile devices.

Interacting with Google Cloud******
1 Google Cloud Console: GUI To manage control over your resources/budgets. You can deploy, scale, and diagnose production issues in a web-based interface.
2 Cloud SDK and Cloud Shell: a set of tools used to manage resources and applications hosted on Google Cloud
  - Google Cloud CLI- provides the main command-line interface for Google Cloud products and services
  - cloud storage - access to Cloud Storage from the command line
  - bq - A command-line tool for BigQuery
3 APIs
4 Google Cloud app


